README.md, before:

# DataStructure-Algorithm

## Data Structure:

### Finding a pair of element with sum K in a Unsorted array: 
Given an absolute unsorted array arr[] and a number K, the task is to find a pair of elements in the given array that sum to K.
| 6 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 16 | 7 | 5 | 2 | 9 | 14 |
|---|---|---|----|----|---|---|---|---|----|
| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3  | 4  | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 |  9 |

#### Pseudocode: 1st Solution
```pseudo
findPairsOfSum(A, n, k)
    for(i = 0; i < n - 1; i++)
        for(j = i + 1; j < n; j++)
            if(A[i] + A[j] == k)
                print("%d + %d = %d", A[i], A[j], k)
```


![Algorithm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13005159/58052772-4ce16f80-7b30-11e9-8d08-02eb91c682b4.png)


## Insertion Sort
The Insertion Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
INSERTION-SORT(A)
for i=2 to A.length
    key = A[i]
    j = i - 1 
    while j > 0 and A[j] > key
        A[j+1] = A[j]
        j = j - 1
    A[j + 1] = key
```


> The time complexity of **INSERTION-SORT** is **O(n^2)**.  
> The algorithm sorts in place so its **space complexity** is **O(1)** for the imperative implementation.
> **O(n)** for the recursive implementation.



## Merge Sort
The Merge Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
MergeSort(arr[], l,  r)
If r > l
     1. Find the middle point to divide the array into two halves:  
             middle m = (l+r)/2
     2. Call mergeSort for first half:   
             Call mergeSort(arr, l, m)
     3. Call mergeSort for second half:
             Call mergeSort(arr, m+1, r)
     4. Merge the two halves sorted in step 2 and 3:
             Call merge(arr, l, m, r)
```


Time Complexity: Sorting arrays on different machines. Merge Sort is a recursive algorithm and time complexity can be expressed as following recurrence relation.   
**T(n) = 2T(n/2) + \Theta(n)**   
The above recurrence can be solved either using Recurrence Tree method or Master method. 
Time complexity of Merge Sort is \Theta(nLogn) in all 3 cases (worst, average and best) as merge sort always divides the array in two halves and take linear time to merge two halves.

Auxiliary Space: O(n)

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer





## Quick Sort
The Quick Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
/* low  --> Starting index,  high  --> Ending index */
quickSort(arr[], low, high)
{
    if (low < high)
    {
        /* pi is partitioning index, arr[pi] is now
           at right place */
        pi = partition(arr, low, high);

        quickSort(arr, low, pi - 1);  // Before pi
        quickSort(arr, pi + 1, high); // After pi
    }
}
```


Time Complexity: The solution of above recurrence is **\theta(n2)**.   
> The solution of above recurrence is \theta(nLogn).    It can be solved using case 2 of **Master Theorem**.   

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer








## Bubble Sort
The Quick Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
/* low  --> Starting index,  high  --> Ending index */
quickSort(arr[], low, high)
{
    if (low < high)
    {
        /* pi is partitioning index, arr[pi] is now
           at right place */
        pi = partition(arr, low, high);

        quickSort(arr, low, pi - 1);  // Before pi
        quickSort(arr, pi + 1, high); // After pi
    }
}
```


Time Complexity: The solution of above recurrence is **\theta(n2)**.   
> The solution of above recurrence is \theta(nLogn).    It can be solved using case 2 of **Master Theorem**.   

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer

Commit message:

Update findPairs of SUm with second solution

README.md, after:

# DataStructure-Algorithm

## Data Structure:

### Finding a pair of element with sum K in a Unsorted array: 
Given an absolute unsorted array arr[] and a number K, the task is to find a pair of elements in the given array that sum to K.
| 6 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 16 | 7 | 5 | 2 | 9 | 14 |
|---|---|---|----|----|---|---|---|---|----|
| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3  | 4  | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 |  9 |

#### Pseudocode: 1st Solution
```pseudo
findPairsOfSum(A, n, k)
    for(i = 0; i < n - 1; i++)
        for(j = i + 1; j < n; j++)
            if(A[i] + A[j] == k)
                print("%d + %d = %d", A[i], A[j], k)
```


#### Pseudocode: 2nd Solution: Using Hash
```pseudo
findPairsOfSum(A, n, k)
    for(i = 0; i < n - 1; i++)
        for(j = i + 1; j < n; j++)
            if(A[i] + A[j] == k)
                print("%d + %d = %d", A[i], A[j], k)
```


![Algorithm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13005159/58052772-4ce16f80-7b30-11e9-8d08-02eb91c682b4.png)


## Insertion Sort
The Insertion Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
INSERTION-SORT(A)
for i=2 to A.length
    key = A[i]
    j = i - 1 
    while j > 0 and A[j] > key
        A[j+1] = A[j]
        j = j - 1
    A[j + 1] = key
```


> The time complexity of **INSERTION-SORT** is **O(n^2)**.  
> The algorithm sorts in place so its **space complexity** is **O(1)** for the imperative implementation.
> **O(n)** for the recursive implementation.



## Merge Sort
The Merge Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
MergeSort(arr[], l,  r)
If r > l
     1. Find the middle point to divide the array into two halves:  
             middle m = (l+r)/2
     2. Call mergeSort for first half:   
             Call mergeSort(arr, l, m)
     3. Call mergeSort for second half:
             Call mergeSort(arr, m+1, r)
     4. Merge the two halves sorted in step 2 and 3:
             Call merge(arr, l, m, r)
```


Time Complexity: Sorting arrays on different machines. Merge Sort is a recursive algorithm and time complexity can be expressed as following recurrence relation.   
**T(n) = 2T(n/2) + \Theta(n)**   
The above recurrence can be solved either using Recurrence Tree method or Master method. 
Time complexity of Merge Sort is \Theta(nLogn) in all 3 cases (worst, average and best) as merge sort always divides the array in two halves and take linear time to merge two halves.

Auxiliary Space: O(n)

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer





## Quick Sort
The Quick Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
/* low  --> Starting index,  high  --> Ending index */
quickSort(arr[], low, high)
{
    if (low < high)
    {
        /* pi is partitioning index, arr[pi] is now
           at right place */
        pi = partition(arr, low, high);

        quickSort(arr, low, pi - 1);  // Before pi
        quickSort(arr, pi + 1, high); // After pi
    }
}
```


Time Complexity: The solution of above recurrence is **\theta(n2)**.   
> The solution of above recurrence is \theta(nLogn).    It can be solved using case 2 of **Master Theorem**.   

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer








## Bubble Sort
The Quick Sort algorithm and have a look at its Java implementation.

##### Pseudocode
```pseudo
/* low  --> Starting index,  high  --> Ending index */
quickSort(arr[], low, high)
{
    if (low < high)
    {
        /* pi is partitioning index, arr[pi] is now
           at right place */
        pi = partition(arr, low, high);

        quickSort(arr, low, pi - 1);  // Before pi
        quickSort(arr, pi + 1, high); // After pi
    }
}
```


Time Complexity: The solution of above recurrence is **\theta(n2)**.   
> The solution of above recurrence is \theta(nLogn).    It can be solved using case 2 of **Master Theorem**.   

Algorithmic Paradigm: Divide and Conquer
